docs.txt

    GOAL:   ** remove the thinking associated with task tracking **
            
            (e.g. where should this new task go, where is the info i stored 
            earlier, what did i do today, what should i be doing next, where 
            are my files stored, what happens if i dont have access to this app 
            anymore, where should i store all this info related to debugging, 
            what was the solution i came up with earlier for a similar issue
            i had, what tasks are related to this one, what other tasks are 
            left, where can i store all these ideas for testing so that they
            dont get lost later, how do i store the info so that it doesnt 
            cause visual clutter on the page for reading later, etc.)
            
            keeping everything text based so i have full control over it
            
            customisable to allow me to create task tracker exactly the way 
            I need it

            KEEP IT SIMPLE

    NOTE:   ive got a really good structured system emerging, but nothing 
            online that really caters to what i want with only text and column 
            alignment. 
            colouring syntax would also be helpful actually. lines marked TASK 
            are white (and underlined or bolded maybe), RUN is orange, 
            STATUS: UNFINISHED is red, STATUS: SUCCESS is green, TODO: is ?, 
            IDEA: is yellow?, FACT:?, error is bright green?, 
            can also change background colour, add border, italics, bold, 
            dunno, (see intellij's TODO feature to see other ways to visually 
            deliniate terms) just small helpful things like that. dont want 
            anything else really  etc... 

    LIKES:      I'm really liking the columns, indentation, max width, 
                common standardised keywords, syntax highlighting, task 
                tracking that I can keep notes attached to a task/subtask
                but move into the backlog if its not of importance right now,
                having ctasks/ctask, tasks next, where im up to with a 
                current task, being able to keep track of functionality and
                tests in a standard, local, maintable, searchable way,
                having a backlog for tasks/subtasks/tests/etc. 
    
    DISLIKE:    I need a better way to keep track of stories
                that become tasks, that become long enough to have
                sections, that generate subtasks that generate notes 
                etc... its starting to become a bit
                hard to see where one task begins and another ends,
                quickly visually id'ing the current task, referencing 
                task from a subtask and vice versa, differentiating
                the sections of backlog, tasks next, tasks current, config,
                etc..
MVP

    0.1         in the short term visually select text, cut it and send it to
                its own text file. write some function that utilises a template
                and use the vim function that creates a new file to take in 
                more arguments to populate other fields like parent, task name,
                etc.
                
    tickets     my thinking here was to have a clear cut use in mind to help 
                steer decisions towards a minimal but very useable mvp (i.e. 
                work)

REQUIREMENTS

    NEED:   column width markers or auto word wrap
    NEED:   full syntax hightlighting
    NEED:   column editing 
    NEED:   txt based
    NEED:   folding (likely on custom rules but im flexible)
    OR:     file linking
    OR:     both (stories would get their own files and 
            can link up to a todo that links to all the below stories
    NEED:   way to see what was done today so i dont have to run through
            the mental gym to find what I did (recall is a good thing to
            train but this is unnecessarily time consuming and annoying)

